added migration stratergy doc (#2919)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/observability/aws/deploy-use-aws-observability/migration-strategy-using-terraform.md

---
id: migration-strategy-using-terraform
title: Migration Strategy from CloudWatch Source to Kinesis Firehose Source using Terraform
sidebar_label: Migration Strategy using Terraform
description: Learn how to migrate CloudWatch Source to Kinesis Firehose Source using Terraform.
---

> This document will help you to migrate CloudWatch Source to Kinesis Firehose Source using Terraform. There are two approaches which you can follow for the migration. Refer [AWS Kinesis Firehose for Logs Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/amazon-aws/aws-kinesis-firehose-logs-source/) and [AWS Kinesis Firehose for Metrics Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/amazon-aws/aws-kinesis-firehose-metrics-source/#kinesis-firehose-source-or-cloudwatch-source) to know about the migration beifits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document will help you to migrate CloudWatch Source to Kinesis Firehose Source using Terraform. There are two approaches which you can follow for the migration. Refer to [AWS Kinesis Firehose for Logs Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/amazon-aws/aws-kinesis-firehose-logs-source/) and [AWS Kinesis Firehose for Metrics Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/amazon-aws/aws-kinesis-firehose-metrics-source/#kinesis-firehose-source-or-cloudwatch-source) to know about the migration benefits.
```

1. Disable all other collections in this block. 
1. Run `terraform init` and `terraform apply`.
    ```sql
    module "new-collection-module" {
    source = "./source-module"

    aws_account_alias         = var.aws_account_alias
    sumologic_organization_id = var.sumologic_organization_id
    access_id                 = var.sumologic_access_id
    access_key                = var.sumologic_access_key
    environment               = var.sumologic_environment  
    sumologic_collector_details = {
        "collector_name": "AWS Observability Prod",
        "description": "This collector is created using Sumo Logic terraform AWS Observability module.",
        "fields": {}
    }
    collect_cloudwatch_logs = "Kinesis Firehose Log Source"
    collect_cloudwatch_metrics = "Kinesis Firehose Metrics Source"
    collect_cloudtrail_logs = "false"
    collect_classic_lb_logs = "false"
    collect_elb_logs = "false"
    collect_root_cause_data = "None"
    }
    ```
1. Verify the following:
    1. Log group and metrics subscription. 
    1. Logs and metrics ingested into Sumo Logic via Kinesis Firehose sources.

> 1. Once verified, delete the old CloudWatch log sources (HTTP) and metrics sources with other associated resources like Lambdas, subscription, and more.

Reviewer: Should this be indented?

    1. Disable logs and metrics collection in the original collection block and run `terraform apply` again to clean up the redundant resources.
    ```sql
    module "old-collection-module" {
    source = "./source-module"

    aws_account_alias         = var.aws_account_alias
    sumologic_organization_id = var.sumologic_organization_id
    access_id                 = var.sumologic_access_id
    access_key                = var.sumologic_access_key
    environment               = var.sumologic_environment  
    collect_cloudwatch_logs = "None"
    collect_cloudwatch_metrics = "None"
    }
    ```

:::note
This approach will create an additional collector with Kinesis logs and metrics sources.
:::

### Advantages

> - There is no loss of logs and metrics during migration.
> 
> ### Disadvantages
> 
> - There will be ingestion of duplicate logs and metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No loss of logs and metrics during migration.

### Disadvantages

- Duplicate logs and metrics may be ingested.
```

## Approach 2: Update existing collection module

1. Update `collect_cloudwatch_logs` from **Lambda Log Forwarder** to **Kinesis Firehose Log Source**.
1. Update `collect_cloudwatch_metrics` from **CloudWatch Metrics Source** to **Kinesis Firehose Metrics Source**.
    ```sql
    collect_cloudwatch_logs = "Kinesis Firehose Log Source"
    collect_cloudwatch_metrics = "Kinesis Firehose Metrics Source"
    ```
1. Run `terraform apply`.
    - Forwarding of logs and metrics will start to Sumo Logic using Kinesis Firehose for Logs and Kinesis Firehose for Metrics.
    - Old CloudWatch log source (HTTP) and metrics source along with other associated resources such as Lambdas, subscription, and more will also be deleted.

### Advantages

> - There is no ingestion of duplicate logs and metrics.
> 
> ### Disadvantages
> 
> - There will be a loss of logs and metrics during migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No ingestion of duplicate logs and metrics.

### Disadvantages

-  Logs and metrics will be lost during migration.
```

## Troubleshooting

### Error

`A resource with the same name already exists`

### Cause

> When you try to migrate CloudWatch Source to Kinesis Firehose Source using [Approach 2](#approach-2-update-existing-collection-module), migration will fail because Terraform tries to create a Kinesis source with the same name before deleting the existing Cloudwatch Source. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you try to migrate CloudWatch Source to Kinesis Firehose Source using [Approach 2](#approach-2-update-existing-collection-module), migration will fail. This is because Terraform tries to create a Kinesis source with the same name before deleting the existing CloudWatch Source. 
```

### Solution

1. Run `terraform apply` again to create a Kinesis Firehose log source. 
1. Wait until the migration gets completed.
1. Verify your subscription and log + metrics ingestion into Sumo Logic.

### Error

`Error: error creating Serverless Application Repository CloudFormation Stack (arn:aws:cloudformation:us-east-1:XXXXXXXXX:stack/serverlessrepo-serverless-hello-world-test/7a6ef230-35a6-11zb-98ff-0ab512dce13f) change set: unexpected state 'FAILED', wanted target 'CREATE_COMPLETE'. last error: %!s()`

### Solution

> To resolve this issue, refer to [creating Serverless Application Repository CloudFormation](/docs/observability/aws/deploy-use-aws-observability/deploy-with-terraform/#troubleshooting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, refer to [Creating Serverless Application Repository CloudFormation](/docs/observability/aws/deploy-use-aws-observability/deploy-with-terraform/#troubleshooting).
```
